Hi everyone and welcome to this appendix
lecture on Web Scraping in Python.
So in this appendix lecture,
I'm gonna go over how to scrape
information from the web using Python.
So, we'll go to a website, decide what
information we want, see where and
how it's stored, then scrape it and
set it as a pandas.DataFrame.
So, as always,
you can just go to nbviewer.ipython.org,
search for my get hub user name,
J-M-P-O-R-T-I-L-L-A,
jmportilla, and
then if you click here on web scraping,
after searching,
you'll have a link to the nb viewer.
This iPython notebook is
just called web scraping.
So you click it here and you will be
able to see the IPython notebook for
this lecture.
So I'll be switching back between the
IPython notebook and also the live coding.
So let's go over a little bit
of web scraping in general.
So, there's some things you should
consider before web scraping a website.
You should definitely check
out a site's terms and
conditions before you scrape
the information off that website.
For instance, if you want to make an app
that shows different sporting outcomes,
it would most likely be illegal for
you to scrape information off ESPN since
that's the same business that they're in.
In our case, we're gonna be scraping off
information from a government website.
So that's public information so
that's okay to scrape.
So you should be personally responsible
and check a site's terms and
conditions before you scrape them.
Another thing to consider is you should
definitely space out your requests so
you don't overload the site's server.
If you make too many requests
at too close of a time interval,
your IP could get blocked.
Another thing to keep in consideration
is that your web-scraping code will most
likely break after
a certain amount of time.
Web pages change their layout all
the time, and more than likely,
maybe like a year down the line,
you're gonna have to rewrite your code.
It could even be just a few days down
the line, depending on the website and
how often it's changed.
Another thing to know is that web
pages are usually inconsistent,
so more than likely you'll have to clean
up the data after you scrape it, and
you'll see an example of us cleaning
the data in this lecture as well, and
then last but not least,
every web page and situation is different.
You'll more than likely have to spend
quite a bit of time configuring
your scraper.
Another thing we want to know is HTML,
so you're going to need some
very basic knowledge of HTML in
order to web scrape effectively.
So I suggest you go to
one of these two links.
One is the w3school.
It just has a nice HTML tutorial here.
And if you wanna get
really deep into HTML and
CSS style sheets, you can go ahead and
check out Code Academies.
HTML and CSS.
For this lecture,
you don't have to worry about that.
I'll explain the few HTML tags we deal
with, but in case you want to get
deeper into web scraping in the future
definitely learn more about HTML and CSS.
So moving along.
There's going to be three modules
we'll need in addition to just Python.
The first one is beautiful soup and
you can download that by typing either
pip install Beautiful Soup 4 or conda
install Beautiful Soup 4 depending on what
distribution of Python you
installed on your computer.
And you can just put that
into your command prompt.
Next LMXL,
we'll need to download that as well.
Again pip install our conda install.
Then finally requests, and
you can pip or conda install that.
So if we look at requests what
we're going to be using that for
is just basically a standard module for
communicating with websites using HTTP and
it's really user friendly.
And then the Beautiful Soup module is one
of the main modules used in Python for
web scraping and it's got a lot
of documentation to read up on.
So you can check that
out on your own time.
So now we'll hop over to the live
coding and do those imports.
So lets go ahead and
import Beautiful Soup.
But, something to keep in mind is you're
actually going to import this from BS4.
So that's just the convention, so
you're importing Beautiful Soup from BS4,
which stands for Beautiful Soup 4.
Great.
So, let's keep going.
I'm going to also import requests.
And then since I want to later set
my information that I web scraped as
a pandas.DataFrame I'm
gonna import pandas as PD.
And then import, or from pandas,
import series and data frame.
Okay, so for
our quick web scraping tutorial,
we're gonna look at some legislative
reports from the University of California
webpage, so feel free to
experiment with other webpages,
but just remember to be cautious and
respectful on what you scrape and
how often you do it, and always check
the legality of a web scraping job.
So, if we just go ahead and
check out the URL,
I have it here in my IPython notebook.
It's quite a long URL so
I'm just going to copy and paste it.
Copy, paste it here, and
I'm setting it as an object called URL.
So I'm just going to run this cell
real quick, and let's go ahead and
check out the web page itself.
So if you notice here,
we're at the University of California,
office of the President.EDU.
And I've come to a page where the budget
and the analysis and planning,
and you can see there's a table here.
So what I want to do is, if you notice,
some of the report titles are available
as a PDF, and they all have a date.
So what I want to do is Get this table and
basically set it as a pandas.DataFrame.
So the next step is setting up a request
to grab content from the URL and
set it up as a Beautiful Soup object.
So I'm going to head over,
back to my life coding.
Set an object called result, and
then I'm gonna use
requests.getmethod on my URL object.
That will be my result, and then I'll set
an object called C as
the content of that result.
So we're using requests to get the
information off that URL, that webpage,
and then we're setting the content method
on that result and setting that as C.
And then once you have that content
what you're going to be able to do using
Beautiful Soup is make a soup object and
this is just the convention.
And then call Beautiful Soup as
a function on that content and
now you have a Beautiful Soup object.
So we're going to be able to use
Beautiful Soup to search for
what we want in that requests
result object, that content.
So let's head back over
to the web page here.
So how do I know what to look for
and where to find it?
So what you're gonna do here is if you
go on Chrome, you can right-click and
inspect element.
And then this is where your HTML
knowledge will come into hand,
will come handy actually.
So what we wanna do is look for where
in the HTML code is this table written.
So you can kind of scroll and look and
what you're generally gonna be doing is
checking where your
table gets highlighted.
So if you notice here and I'm sorry if
it's hard to read, but basically I am
going through the HTML code,
it's inspecting the element, and
waiting until I see what
I want is highlighted.
So if you notice here, I clicked on
divclass=listland and did=content.
And I see that what I wanted
is highlighted there.
So now I know what class and
id to search for.
So I'm gonna get that information, and
again if you don't quite understand that
go ahead and look those things
up on the HTML tutorials, but
now I know what class and ID I want.
So I'm gonna go back to my live coding and
go to that section of interest.
So, I'm gonna make an object
called summary and
I'm gonna call the find
method on that soup object.
And then what I'm gonna do is pass
a dictionary for the class and the ID.
And again, I'm not diving too
much into the HTML itself.
I'll go ahead and
let you look that stuff up on your own.
So this is really just about web scraping.
Hopefully you already have a little
bit of HTML knowledge but again,
if you don't don't worry.
You can go ahead and
always look up those tutorials online.
Okay, so
we're gonna find in our soup object where
the class was equal to list land and
where the ID was content and we can do
that by passing that dictionary there.
And go ahead and look up
the beautiful soup documentation for
other methods of doing this,
there's tons of ways to do this.
So now I'm at the correct section and
I want to find a table in the HTML.
So the way to do that is I'll
make an object called tables and
I'll have that be equal to my summary and
then I'll pass the find all method.
And I'm gonna tell it
to find all the tables.
Great.
So now we need to use Beautiful Soup
to find the actual table entries.
So I'm gonna hop back over to
the IPython notebook here.
A little quick dive into HTML.
A td tag defines a standard
cell in an HTML table and
the tr tag defines a row in an HTML table.
So you can think of tr as table row.
So what we're going to do is we're
gonna parse through our tables object,
the one we just made and try to find
each cell using the find all TD method.
So there's tons of options to use with
the find all method in Beautiful Soup.
You can go ahead and click this
link here in the IPython notebook,
that'll take you to the documentation,
specifically the find all section, and
you can see that there's lots of different
ways to basically search through your
Beautiful Soup objects, and I encourage
you to check out the documentation.
If you're already familiar with HTML, it
will be very readable, but if you're not
go ahead and do the HTML tutorials first,
and then look up the find all information.
Again, this whole web scraper
tutorial is pretty dependent on
a little bit of HTML knowledge.
So, that's a good starting place for it.
Okay, so what we're gonna do next
is we're gonna use Beautiful Soup
to find the table entries and
we're going to do this using a four loop.
So I'll go ahead and stop the video here,
and in the next section,
we'll look at how to parse through our
information, that data from that webpage,
and then set it as a pandas.DataFrame.
Okay, thanks, and
I'll see you in the next video.